[Music]
when we think about extinct and new
species of animals we usually imagine
dinosaurs mammoths and new kinds of bugs
but there are also dog breeds that the
world will never see again
and some familiar faces that are
surprisingly young beware cuteness
overload ahead number one BRAC tepui it
was a very fast and hearty French
hunting dog white and covered with large
uneven brown spots interestingly this
dog can theoretically be bred again even
though it went extinct in the middle of
the last century this can be done using
the selection method mixing particular
breeds to create the Brak topoi - Hari
Indian dog this dog was named after the
native Indian Hari tribe in Canada these
dogs were very friendly and loyal to
humans thick fur didn't let them freeze
and they helped the Indians to hunt
defending them against wild coyotes some
say they were brought by the Vikings
over 2,000 years ago while others
believe this breed was a mixture of
coyote and Icelandic dog these dogs
didn't bark and could stalk their prey
silently which made them excellent
hunters number three molasses
this one is an ancient Greek breed it's
considered the ancestor of modern
Mastiffs this dog was large and massive
it looked like a mini polar bear it was
also a good guard of houses in cattle no
robber in the world would want to step
into the territory of this dog but the
main thing was that it was a very
dedicated animal for alpine Mastiff the
ancestor of modern st. Bernard and
Mastiff it was the largest dog in
England some of these dogs reached
almost 40 inches at the shoulder and
weighed as much as 350 pounds or more
five English Water Spaniel this cute
breed of dogs completely disappeared
before the middle of the last century it
was used for hunting waterfowl because
of its ability to dive under water it's
believed that breeders were inspired by
this particular dog to create the Irish
annual six tesam tesam is one of the
oldest breeds first mentions of them
appeared on the frescoes in ancient
Egypt this breed was a distant ancestor
of Basenji tesam had long legs pointed
ears and a twisted tail outwardly they
resembled modern greyhounds very
majestic and beautiful dogs as well as
wonderful hunters seven turnspit dog or
a kitchen dog this cutesy little dog was
bred in England in the 16th century it
was used as an engine in the kitchen
turning the spit with me the dog ran
inside a wheel like a squirrel the wheel
was spinning the meat was cooking the
breed was very hearty but compact it
disappeared by the mid 19th century
since the kitchen wheel ceased to be
relevant eight bull and terrier
this breed appeared in the 19th century
England they were agile stubborn very
Hardy and didn't care about pain they
were a cross between an Old English
bulldog and various Terriers the
breeders were not very worried about the
dog's appearance when breeding them so
cute wasn't the word to describe them
they were excellent rat catchers though
9 - chichi a cute mini dog which is a
direct ancestor of the Chihuahua it was
first mentioned in the 15th century BCE
this breed was a favorite of the Mayan
Indians the dogs were always interred
with the owners as they were considered
to be guides to the afterlife unlike a
chihuahua this dog was mute and could
climb trees like a cat 10 the Salish
wool dog or Commack stock it was a small
long-haired Spitz like dog the name
comes from the coast of Cilicia now the
territory of Washington and British
Columbia these little dogs were fed
salmon and didn't ever mix with any
other dogs Salish wool dog was
considered a very valuable dog because
of its thick fur expensive warm blankets
were made from it the need for dogs
disappeared when Europeans began to
bring ordinary cheap blankets to Salish
tonton bear-dog these were bred in
Canada by the Talton Indians they were
small dogs standing 14 to 17 inches at
the shoulder with pointed ears and a
handsome and long gated muzzle a little
bit like foxes
despite the cute face and small stature
though they help people hunt bears and
fearlessly attack this formidable beasts
the twelve Paisley Terrier in the modern
world people often bring dogs home just
for fun and decoration Yorkshire Terrier
is a great example of this but it
doesn't mean that in the past people
didn't do the exact same thing meat the
Paisley Terrier this ancestor of the
Yorkshire Terrier in Skye Terrier was
bred in Scotland this dog was adored by
its owners but it's long coat required a
lot of care okay now while those doggies
are gone we've got some new muzzles hoof
appeared so recently that some of them
might be younger than you here goes
number one everyone knows the Husky
breed but in the 70s and 80s a new breed
was selected many husky as you can guess
this is the same husky only smaller
by the way bull terrier also has a
younger brother like husky it's a
miniature bull terrier they're not much
taller than chihuahuas but they are very
strong and muscular dots although small
they will boldly rush to any larger dog
to American Bully is a very popular dog
now it looks like a formidable beast but
it was specifically bred to be an
affectionate friend in the family it is
often confused with American pitbull but
these are different breeds American
Bully is also really young it was only
accepted as a separate breed in 2004
three Chinook is a sled dog that is able
to move heavy loads it needs physical
activity and constant movement so it's
not suitable for living indoors
it was first bred in the first half of
the 20th century but almost went extinct
in the 70s and was only saved and
returned in the 2010s now it is one of
the rarest dog breeds in the world
for puggle is a decorative dog that
comes from a mixture of pug and beagle
definitely one of the cutest dogs in the
world experiments to create this breed
started in the 80s but they only began
to gain popularity in the 90s despite
the great fame this dog is still not
recognized as an official breed by any
kennel in the world 5 in 2015
dachshund and pitbull were accidentally
crossed in the USA that's how dachshund
bull appeared the breed instantly became
an Internet star by Nature it absorbed
the qualities of both breeds docks bull
is an affectionate and gentle dog but at
the same time it can become a formidable
defender that fearlessly risks its life
to protect the owner number 6 chi --gel
a mixture of beagle and Chihuahua this
is one of the cutest dogs in the world
and they're all cute right
this dog is intended only to please and
love its owners hunting skills of beagle
remains somewhere deep inside the
cheetah but it's very difficult to teach
him to hunt let this animal just be the
star of your Instagram and love of your
soul 7 Ches keeps who's the charming
plump and fluffy good boy here it's a
husky and Chow Chow mix despite their
cute and funny appearance they are good
and fearless guards ain't bull pay the
mix of English bulldog and Chinese
shar-pei despite its very lazy
appearance it's an active but stubborn
dog it needs a lot of training otherwise
it will begin to gain weight very
quickly 9 Australian stumpy tail Cattle
Dog now this is not a new breed and it
exists to this day it's just one of the
most unusual dogs in the world
it's a shepherd dog bred in England but
brought to Australia in the early 19th
century the most amazing thing is that
unlike other Shepherds the Australian
stumpy tail doesn't bark at all instead
it approaches one animal from the herd
and bites its leg and right after that
the dog shai's away from being hit by a
hoof
that's how it commands I heard talk
about crowd control that really bites
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]